---
title: Documentation on how to log your hours worked
name: Logging Hours
layout: default
---
*note: need to add screenshots*

Login with your account to Agilito and click on "Log" in the tabs:

In the right column, there are 2 collapsable menus: "Task", which
shows the tasks you have recently worked on, and "All", which
contains all the projects. If you don't see your task in the first
menu, click on the "+" of the second to show the projects.

Each project contains the iterations, user stories and tasks. So to
find the task you want to log hours, you need to click on the
project, which will show the iterations; then the iteration you
want to log hours for, which will show the user stories; and then
the user story associated for the task. The tasks will show as
radio buttons.

Click on the task you want to log hours for, and the right column
will update with the info for that task.

Add the worked time in the "Time on task" field.

Update the "Remaining" field with the time you estimate is needed
to complete the task; this doesn't needs to be the exact difference
between the worked time and the estimated time, but an update of
the real estimated time remaining.

If the task "State" has a value of "Defined", you need to update it
to "In progress"; If you are completing the task, update "State" to
"Complete" AND set "Remaining" to 0 (zero).

If you are logging for a different day than the current one, you
need to set the "Date" field. Clicking on that field will popup a
calendar, select the date for the log.

Finally write a summary of what you done for that task in the time
you are logging. The log will fail if you don't add this. Finally
click "Apply".

You're done! If you need to log more hours for the same or other
task, repeat the whole process.



